---
title: Methods
description: To provide sufficient details of the procedure to enable the interested readers to repeat your experiment. For readers to assess the validity of your research results and conclusion.
author: tangb
date: 2024-12-22 15:33:00 +0800
categories: [Writing, Subsections]
tags: [Writing, Abstract]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---



Purpose 

To provide sufficient details of the procedure to enable the interested readers to repeat your experiment.

For readers to assess the validity of your research results and conclusion.



### Proper Heading of “Methods”

Materials and Methods

Subjects and Methods

Patients and Methods



Contents of the Method

Basic components of METHODS

Materials — What or who was used for this study?

Methods — How was the study done?



Guiding principles

1. Clarity 

   Highlight the most important or new methods.

   in clear order

   Use both visual and verbal signals

2. Detailed presentation

   Detailed as a cookbook



### Technical details

1. Tenses

   Mostly past tense to present the procedure done

   Exception: present tense

   1. to describe data: e.g., Data are presented as menas +- SD.
   2. to cite existing knowledge of facts

2. Point of view

   The point of view of the experimenters  

   The point of view of the experitments



### Stock phrases

1. Selection of patients, subjects, healthy volunteers, animals

   A total of 169 patients were included in the study, ….

   Patients with significant mitral or aortic valvular diseases were excluded.

2. Classification of subjects, patients, healthy volunteers, animals

   were divided in to three groups: 

   we randomized 60 patients…

3. Age 

   aged 51+2(mean + SEM) years.

   mean age 45.6 years; range, 29 to 70 years. 





