---
title: Abstract
description: a mini version, a condensed summary of your paper that stands on its own.
author: tangb
date: 2024-12-18 15:33:00 +0800
categories: [Writing, Subsections]
tags: [Writing, Abstract]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

## Function

For readers who read only the abstract — an overview of the paper. 

For readers who read the paper — a clear preview of the main story. 



## Components

- **Objective/Aim (and scope)**: To state the main aim and scope of the investigation
- **Design/Methods**: To describe the methods used 
- **Results**: To summarized the key findings in the study
- **Conclusions**: To state the major conclusions and implications based on the findings



## Structure of an abstract

### Full-structured Abstract

Context—Summarize the study rational and provide clinical (or other) reason for the study question.

Objective—State the purpose or question(s) asked

Design—Describe basic design, including relevant details.

Setting—General community, primary care, hospital, etc.

Patient or other population—describe demographics, disorders, inclusion/exclusion criteria, etc.

Interventions—name, dose, dosage

Main outcome measures 

Results

Conclusions

### Semi-structured abstract

Objective/Background/Aim

Methods

Results

Conclusions

### Non-structured abstract

USE Signal words, like 

Aim/objective: We examined/investigated 

Method: We used/ … using

Results: We found that 

Conclusions: Our finding suggest / show /confirm that



## Standard of a good abstract

informative 

corresponding with the text

complete in content

emphasize the new and important aspects of the study



Clear

no reference, figures or tables; no abbreviations of jargons

for non-structured abstracts, use signal word to indicate each section of the paper

use short, simple sentences



Concise

length: Most abstracts are often too long: < 250 words

examine each word; make sure each word is necessary

Achieving conciseness

Introductions/purpose: 1 short sentence

Put objective as imperative style:

Objective: to evaluate whether zinc supplementation during pregnancy affects infant birth measures.

Methods, Restuls: 2-4 sentences

Conclusion: 1-2 sentences



Technical details

Tenses in Abstract

1. The objectives part
   - introducing background information: mostly simple **present tense**, some times **simple perfect tense**
   - stating objectives: past tense
2. Methods and results part: **past tense**
3. Conclusion part: **mostly present tense**



Recognizing the “Stock Phrases”

stock phrases — standard phrases that are frequently used in research articles (such as SCI papers) published in journals.



Using Abbreviations

When to use it?

1. Use it for long terms that occur more than 6 times
2. No abbreviation in title or abstract
3. Keep to a minimum

How to use it?

1. Fully spell it out the first time, then follow it with the abbreviation in parentheses. 
2. Use the standard abbreviations.
3. Check the “Instructions to authors” for advice.
4. Use System International (SI) for unites measure. 
