---
title: Results
description: Results are general statements that interpret data.
author: tangb
date: 2024-12-20 15:33:00 +0800
categories: [Writing, Subsections]
tags: [Writing, Results]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

## Results 

Content

Big picture:

Results

Important data



Types of Data

- Raw data: actual number found
- Summarized data: e.g., mean +- the standard deviation
- Transformed data: percentage of control



Results and Data

Results are general statements that interpret data.

Data are facts, often numbers that are used to support results.



### Orgnization

Oganizing Principles: 

**Report results only pertinent to the research question(s).**

Include the most important data.



Order of Results

Consistent with the order in the Methods

For the whole Results —

​	Chronological order

​	By the types of the information

Within each subsection —

​	Most important — least important results.



### Guiding principles

1. be clear

   main results in text, data in tables and/or illustrations.

2. Be brief 

   data should be kept to a minimum in the text.

3. Highlighting the most important message

   **important results first** 

   avoid using a figure legend or a table title as a topic sentence.



### Technical Details

Tenses

Mostly past tense

exception: **present tense for presenting results in tables or figures**



### Stock phrases

- **Stock phrases to describe significant differences:** 

  There were no significance differences between …

  No significant difference was found among …

  … differ significantly 

  was significantly lower than 

  was significantly higher compared with …

  was significantly higher … versus …

  was not significantly different from …

- Stock phrases to describe increase/decrease: 

  were increased/decreased 

  there was an increase/ a decrease in …

  increased/decreased from … to …

  An increase was found/observed.

- **Tables and illustrations**

  When to use them?

  The rule: be informative 

  In either ONE way: text, table, figure, NO REFETITION

- **Tables**

  When to use?

  ONLY when repetitive data must be presented 

- **Principles for arranging tabular material**

  Three horizontal lines but no vertical lines

  Like elements read down, not across

  Words in a column are lined up on the left, numbers on the right

- **Checklist**

  Tables are numbered in the order that are cited in the text.

  Data in the table are consistent with the pertinent text.

  The format of the table follows the “instruction to authors.”

  The format of the table matches the format of the tables published in your target journal.



**Effective illustrations**

When to use ?

For accurate data, TABLE.

For pronounced trends, GRAPH.

 

What is illustration?

An image or graphic portrayal of methods or data in a scientific paper. Types of illustrations include *graphs, diagrams, flow charts, photographs, radiographs*



### Three common figure types

Bar graph

Line graph

Photograph



Bar Graph

Line graph

Consists of lines, words, and symbols but no photograph.

Line graph

Legends
